It took me a long time to realize this,
but getting triggered is one of the best
possible things that can ever happen to
you. I was hanging out at Bedadega Bay.
I'm overlooking the water with my friend
and he looks at me and he goes, "You
know, Joe, you're you're a dick." And
I was like, "No, I'm not." Got defended,
got triggered. "No, I'm not. What are
you talking about? You know, I I I'm
actually a really nice person to blah
blah blah." He's like, "Hey, you don't
have to defend it. Don't worry about it.
Like, don't get triggered. You're a
dick. It's okay. We still love you. it's
no problem. I mean, there's a lot of
people who are dicks who are great
people. Like, don't worry about it. And
there was nothing in him that was
attacking me. It was just owning
something. And so, I owned it. I was
like, "Yeah, okay. I can totally see
it." And I I guarantee you that all of
us can see some way in which we are a
dick, right? Or not nice. And so, I
looked at those places. I was like,
"Yeah, you know what? That's true. I can
totally see that. I can see how you
would say that." Absolutely. And then
what was weird was I noticed that I
wasn't doing the things that made me be
a dick as much.
So what happens? How do we get
triggered? We get triggered when
somebody says something to us that
rhymes with our negative self-t talk. If
you say to somebody, "Boy, you're taking
a lot of pills." And they have no
problem with that. They're going to say
to you, "Oh, yeah, yeah, I'm sick and
etc. and I need to take these pills for
X, Y, and Z. But if you say to somebody,
"Boy, you take a lot of pills." And the
voice in their head is telling them
like, "What's wrong with you? You have
to take all these pills." Man, they're
going to get triggered. They're going to
get defended. They're going to be upset
with you. Which means you getting
triggered only happens when somebody is
saying something that you agree with.
Right? If I said to you right now, you
know what? Sky is purple. and you don't
agree with that, you're probably not
going to get triggered by it. But if you
think to yourself, "Wow, the sky is
purple, but everybody else is is blue,
so I shouldn't think it's purple." And
then I say, "You think the sky is
purple," you're going to get triggered
by it. Now, when you get triggered, you
could get triggered by getting angry.
No, the sky isn't purple.
Or you can get triggered by shame. Oh
man, I keep on thinking, "That sky is
purple. I got to stop doing that." Or
you can get triggered by fear. You can
go, "Oh my gosh, he knows that the sky
is purple and I think the sky is purple.
What is what is he going to think of
me?" But whatever is happening, you're
having an emotional response because
somebody said something to you that
rhymes with what you say to yourself all
the time. So the other thing is that it
works in ad in reverse as well. Let's
say I'm triggered by you because
you're so judgmental.
Now, first of all, obviously I'm
judgmental. I just got triggered by you
for being judgmental. So, I'm judging
your judgment. So, clearly I'm
judgmental. But that's always the case.
It's always the case that the thing that
triggers you about somebody else is
something in yourself that you don't
like, right? If you're really happy to
be able to share all the cool things
you've done and then somebody else
shares the good things they've done,
there's no problem. You're like, "Oh,
cool. Thanks for sharing that. I love to
hear those stories." But if you're one
of those people who thinks that's
bragging and that you're not allowed to
brag and then they do it, then you're
going to say, "Oh, that person's a
braggger. You're going to judge them.
They're going to be bad." And it means
that you think the part of you that
wants to like share all the cool things
you've done is bad. And the crazy thing
is, whatever that thing is, whether it's
wanting to be seen or wanting to share
all the cool things you've done, whether
it's being judgmental, whether it's
being a braggard, whether it's being
arrogant, whether it's being falsely
humble, we all do it. Every single one
of us does it. And so, you're actually
judging yourself for something that
other people and most likely everybody
has experienced.
And you're not allowing yourself to be
that. And by not allowing yourself to be
it, you're creating this friction in
your system that often creates more of
it. I was like hanging out with my mom
the other day and she looked at me and
she goes, "Do you think I was a bad
mom?"
And I remembered as a kid, every time I
said she was a bad mom, she got so
defensive. She got so angry. She got so
triggered. And I just sat there. I
looked at her and it just broke my heart
cuz I realized for the first time that
whole thing what it was about was that
she was thinking she was a bad mom.
All those triggers, all that stuff was
that she was criticizing herself. And
the more she thought it, the more likely
she was to be a bad mom.
The more she could actually just own the
fact that she wasn't a perfect mother
and that nobody's a perfect mother and
that she wanted to be a good mother.
like so many of the behaviors that she
felt ashamed about would have just gone
away.
So just to like review it for a minute,
can you love and accept and admit all
these parts of yourself without shame?
But you can't do that unless you see
those parts of yourself. And you can't
see those parts of yourself unless you
get triggered. Which is why being
triggered is so incredibly exciting for
me now because it's like, oh my gosh,
there's some part of me that I don't
want to admit to, that I don't like,
that I judge, that I'm ashamed of. And
it's an amazing thing now. You see it
all the time in my classes. You'll see
people attack me. You'll see people come
at me in all different ways. And you'll
see over and over again that I'm just
like, "Oh, cool. Yeah, absolutely."
You know, somebody's like, "You're not
competent." I'm like, absolutely. I can
name 10 ways I'm not competent because
there's nothing in me resisting. I'm not
triggered by it anymore. Of course, I'm
incompetent. Of course, I don't know
what I'm talking about. None of us know
exactly what we're talking about. Nobody
has it all together. Nobody's completely
competent. Absolutely. Yes. How could I
disagree with you?
It's just if I don't allow myself to be
incompetent. If I think being
incompetent is bad that I would get
triggered. So, the question is, what do
you want? Do you want to have the
experience of being triggered and
defended and proving everybody wrong
about you? Or do you want the freedom
that's on the other side of a trigger?